# Robert K. Mueller
## Composer
## 1958 - 2025

Robert Mueller was Professor of Music at the [University of Arkansas](https://uark.edu), where he taught music composition and music theory and conducted the University Symphony Orchestra. He also served as Chair of the Composition/Theory Area for many years.

Dr. Mueller has been composer-in-residence three times for the Fort Smith Symphony, and his music has been performed nationwide by several orchestra including the Cincinnati, Omaha, Fort Smith, Lansing, Arkansas, Missoula, Helena, Jackson, and North Arkansas Symphonies. He received numerous commissions, was widely published, and released three albums a chamber music: Dream Gardens, Time Labyrinths, and Compositions I.  A number of music festivals programmed his music, including the Bowling Green New Music and Art Festival, the Music Festival of Arkansas, the Southwest Contemporary Music Festival, and conferences of the Society of Composers, International Double Reed Society, National Flute Association, and College Music Society. He was selected to be composer-in-residence for Missouri State University’s Annual Composition Festival in March 2009. Dr. Mueller was been the recipient of over 30 consecutive awards from the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers. He was also awarded an American Prize Honorable Mention for his violin concerto Satori in 2024, and he was awarded an American Music Center grant, an individual artist grant from the Arkansas Arts Council, prizes from the Omaha, Lansing, Jackson and Cincinnati Symphonies, and numerous other awards.

Dr. Mueller grew up in Michigan and attended Northern Michigan University, where he received the Outstanding Pianist Award upon graduation. He has also received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award from NMU, and was invited back to be composer-in-residence in the spring of 2004. He earned the Master of Music in Composition degree from Bowling Green State University, where he studied composition with Marilyn Shrude. At Bowling Green, he also did extensive studies in orchestral conducting.  Dr. Mueller received a DMA in Composition at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, where his teachers were Joel Hoffman, Allan Sapp, Jonathan Kramer, Frederic Rzewski, and Earle Brown.

Dr. Mueller performed as Pianist with the Fort Smith Symphony for over 20 years, and for many years he taught music theory and composition at the Interlochen Arts Camp.  He was Music Director of Good Shepherd Lutheran Church in Fayetteville, where he played the organ and conducted the Chancel Choir and the Handbell Choir, writing most of the music for these ensembles.